### 11/11 Essay: Read this October 2020 article from UPenn that's a set of statements by faculty from a broad array of fields on the ways in which data and data science are contributing to or affecting their field with respect to COVID and the pandemic (hat tip to Rhea). Write 1-2 paragraphs on the following: From what you know about your prospective major, what is a permanent or semi-permanent way the pandemic has affected your field of study or an aspect of culture or society related to your field? Do you believe the change is a net-positive or negative for society and why? What recommendations (if any) would you have for your field moving forward on the issue? For example, if you're a prospective business major, what are your thoughts on remote work and the use of office spaces and how businesses could think about "where" to work moving forward? Or, if you're a prospective psychology or sociology major, how has the virus and pandemic changed how people and societies view and react to germs? You have until 10:05.


The article, The role of data in a world reshaped by COVID-19, discusses how COVID-19 and the pandemic have impacted data in the fields of the different faculty at UPenn. My major, computer science, has been impacted by the pandemic in many ways. I believe this change both positively and negatively impacted those in the tech industry. During the pandemic, remote work soared and will likely increase in the future. I believe that because of this, tech jobs may become more diverse because of the flexible work schedules. This increase in telework could also create a more diverse workforce, making it easier for parents with children to work full time. The pandemic has also led to a demand for specific jobs in tech. Tech jobs, specifically those skilled in cloud-based systems that could help companies transition to remote working were in high demand during the beginning of the pandemic. However, remote work can be very isolating. A large part of working in a tech job is working in groups and the pandemic changed how we fundamentally communicate and engage with one another. 
