## 10/7 Essay: I want to introduce you to another source of sociology-focused data: Our World in Data, founded by Max Roser. Select a topic you are curious about from the dropdown "Articles by topic". Technological Progress, for example. If the topic is lengthy, you can pick just a graph or two. Two cool things about the site are (1) there are concise descriptions of the topics, definitions of terms, and references; and (2) most ( if not all) the plots have their data available for download as a csv. Their COVID plots are some of the best and up-to-date. This one, for example, is robust with its many metrics, but it's simple and easy to manipulate as well. Similar to 9/30's essay, write what topic (or graph(s)) you are looking at. Describe what you see. Are there trends? If so, what are they? Does anything surprise you? Where possible, connect what you see to previous readings, discussions, or your experiences. 

For my topic, I chose women’s employment. According to the article, rising female labor force participation has been one of the most remarkable economic developments in the last century. The article begins by discussing the historical perspective, with the first graph showing the long-run perspective on female labor force participation rates from 1890 to 2016 in several countries. The number of women participating in labor markets radically increased across early-industrialized countries such as the US, Canada, United Kingdom, Germany, Spain, and France. The graph shows a positive trend across all countries, with the growth in participation starting out at different times for each country and growing at different rates. Additionally, the graph shows in most of these rich countries, growth of participation is slowing down in the 21st century, the United States in particular. This could be because of the fact that younger women (ages 15 to 24)  are now less attached to the labor market as they focus on their education. The second graph I looked at was the ratio of male to female force participation rates globally (expressed in percentages). The graph shows that despite the recent growth in female participation rates, men still tend to participate more frequently in labor markets than women. For most of the world, the numbers tend to be well below 100%, meaning that the participation for women is lower than the participation for men. The US has an 82.75% relationship and the United Kingdom has an 85.38% relationship, with men being the majority in the workforce. The last map I looked at was labor force participation of women in the USA from 1955 to 2005. The graph plots female labor force participation, differentiating by marital status. As marked by the upward trend, the graph shows that most of the long-run increase in the participation of women in the labor market throughout the last century is due to an increase in the participation of married women in the US. In 1955, 40% of divorced or widowed women and 60% of single women participated in the labor markets, while only around 28% of married women participated. By 1995, the labor force participation rates of these three categories substantially increased, with around 67% of married women, 47% divorced/widowed women, and 60% of married women were participating. According to Amartya Sen, freedom is the process of expanding human freedoms and enhancing the quality of our lives, and historically, women didn’t have a lot of freedom. However, as women’s freedoms expand, there has been significant progress made in their participation in the labor market.
